[README] Add steps to setup the development environment to run the LXD UI on a Mac [WD-3922] (#349)
canonical/lxd-ui: README.md

# Setting up for development

<details>

>   <summary>Setup LXD - Ubuntu</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <summary>Setup LXD - Linux</summary>
```

  <pre><code>snap install lxd

> lxd init # can accept all defaults

Author: They are, but there are a lot of steps between them in the Mac procedure, so I think it's much cleaner and tidier to keep them separated.

lxc config set core.https_address "[::]:8443"</code></pre>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Setup LXD - Mac</summary>

  First, if you have not already, you need to install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/).

  Then install LXC client with brew:

  <pre><code>brew install lxc</code></pre>

>   Since LXD cannot run natively on a Mac, you need to connect LXC to a remote LXD server. You can set up one inside a Multipass instance. [How to install Multipass on macOS - Using brew](https://multipass.run/docs/installing-on-macos#heading--use-brew)

Author: This sequence of short, imperative sentences sounds really, really bad.

  Once you have LXC and Multipass installed, we can create a Multipass instance where we will run the LXD daemon:

  <pre><code># launch a new instance called "lxd" with 2 CPUs, 4G memory, and 50G of disk space - gauge these values as you prefer
multipass launch -n lxd -c 2 -m 4G -d 50G</code></pre>

  If you get the `Launched: lxd` output, it means that the command succeeded. We can now launch a shell into the newly created instance:

  <pre><code>multipass shell lxd</code></pre>

  You should be greeted with the Ubuntu shell login message `Welcome to Ubuntu ...`. First, we should make sure that we have the latest version of LXD installed:

  <pre><code>sudo snap refresh lxd --channel=latest/stable</code></pre>

>   This command will either tell us `snap "lxd" has no updates available` or update lxd to the latest stable version.

Author: Let's not assume any prior knowledge from the reader and explain everything that needs to be explained properly.

  Now we can initialise LXD - replace `your-password` with a password of your choice - and then close the multipass shell:

  <pre><code>sudo lxd init --auto --trust-password your-password --network-address '[::]'
exit</code></pre>

  Now we need to connect the LXD server that lives in our Multipass instance to our local LXC. In a terminal on your Mac, run:

  <pre><code>lxc remote add default $(multipass info lxd | grep IPv4 | awk '{print $2}') --password your-password --accept-certificate</code></pre>

  (replace `your-password` with the password you selected before)

  You should get a message saying: `Client certificate now trusted by server: default`

>   Now we can switch the remote to the `default` server that we have just added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Switch the remote to the `default` server that we have just added.
```

  <pre><code>lxc remote switch default</code></pre>

>   You should now be able to create instances with the lxc command on your Mac:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Test creation of an instance with the lxc command on your Mac:
```

  <pre><code>lxc launch ubuntu:jammy test-jammy</code></pre>

>   If this succeeds, the setup of LXC and LXD is complete. One last step is to expose the API on port 8443:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If this succeeds, the setup of LXC and LXD is complete. Expose the API on port 8443:
```

  Initialise LXD - replace `your-password` with a password of your choice - and then close the multipass shell:

  <pre><code>sudo lxd init --auto --trust-password your-password --network-address '[::]'
exit</code></pre>

  Connect the LXD server in Multipass to the local LXC. In a terminal on your Mac, run:

  <pre><code>lxc remote add default $(multipass info lxd | grep IPv4 | awk '{print $2}') --password your-password --accept-certificate</code></pre>

  (replace `your-password` with the password you selected before)

  You should get a message saying: `Client certificate now trusted by server: default`

  Switch the remote to the `default` server that we have just added:

  <pre><code>lxc remote switch default</code></pre>

  Launch an instance with the lxc command on your Mac:

  <pre><code>lxc launch ubuntu:jammy test-jammy</code></pre>

  If this succeeds, the setup of LXC and LXD is complete. Finally, expose the API on port 8443:

  <pre><code>lxc config set core.https_address "[::]:8443"</code></pre>

  Now, proceed with the steps to run the LXD-UI.
</details>

> > :warning: **VM instances cannot be created with LXC + Multipass on a Mac**. Nested virtualization is unsupported.

Reviewer: Better put this into the details container for mac?

Author: It'd be too hidden inside there, with a high risk of going unnoticed. Since I think it's an important warning, I'd rather have it visible all the time, and this is why I put it right after the Mac steps container.

Reviewer: I think it's better in the mac section. Currently, it is the first thing you notice in the readme.

Author: > Currently, it is the first thing you notice in the readme. While it is likely not relevant for most users.

That's quite a subjective statement. It's not the first thing that I notice in the README, and even if it was, I wouldn't see anything wrong with it. If it's not relevant to someone, they can safely ignore it.

Rather, knowing that there's an unsupported feature in the Mac setup can be considered of anyone's interest, and can help breaking the tie when a developer is unsure about which dev environment to pick.
